Hyderabadi Chicken Biryani

Ingredients
 basmati rice, goat meat or chicken or beef, dahi, onions, cinnamon, cloves, cardamom or elaichi, bay leafs, nutmeg, black cumin (shahi jeera), mace flower (javitri), star anise (biryani flower), lemon, and saffron. Coriander leaves and fried onions are used as garnish.

 Preparation
 We start preparing this Andhra special, with what we know as ‘marination’. Take chicken and marinate with the ingredients given under marination. Also add the biryani powder.  
Once done, keep aside for 4 hrs or for at least 1 1/2 hrs. Now while it’s marinating, let’s start off on the rest of the preparation.
First, cook the basmati rice. Don’t forget to add in the bay leaves, cinnamon, cardamom, cloves, elaichi, marathi mogga, oil and salt along with water. Once the rice is half done, strain the water and spread it on a large wide plate so it can cool.
Now, in a vessel heat oil along with the ghee. Add in sliced onions and sauté for 8-10 mins till they caramelize. Once done, remove and keep aside.
Prepare saffron milk now by simply adding saffron to lukewarm milk. Mix well and keep aside.
Ready to prepare the biryani now? Take a wide deep vessel and add 3 tbsp of oil. Next, add in marinated chicken and spread out over the vessel. Let it cook on high for 2 mins and then, add a tablespoon of oil over the chicken pieces. Remember to reduce the flame.
Next, spread half of the rice over this chicken layer and pour ½ tbsp of ghee all over it. Now, add half of the caramelized onions and spread them over. Sprinkle a tablespoon of coriander leaves and pour in 1/4 cup of saffron milk. 
Now over this layer, let’s spread the rest of the rice. Follow the same process of pouring ghee, remaining caramelized onions, coriander leaves and pouring the left over saffron milk over the rice.
Place a lid and over the lid, put a heavy weight. Time to seal edges with wheat dough. 
Once sealed, cook on high flame for 2 mins. Now, remove from stove.
Heat an iron tawa. Once hot, reduce to low flame and place the biryani on it. Let it cook for 20-25 mins. Then, turn off heat and do not remove lid for 10 mins. 
Remove lid and mix the layers together.  
To make the most of this biryani, serve hot with a raita and curry of your choice.

